>> Steve Kinney: Okay, so we've now set
the context of talking about state,
that was fun, wasn't it?
We had this heady intellectual
discussion at nine in the morning.
Now we're going to move into
the second phase, which is
what I like to call An Uncomfortably
Close Look at React Component State.
Right you're like I signed up for redox!
I'm like yes, we're starting with
reaction component state, and
we're gonna look at it and
kind of like figure out, cuz a lot of
the patterns that we use in react redox.
Or with any sl libraries,
you can implement with regular
reaction components right?
And maybe sometimes you should, alright.
So we're going to look at it,
in the simplest possible case.
And then begin to keep stepping back, and
looking at it from a wider and wider view.
So we're going to start with
the world's simplest React component.
And, in the theme of building
our own light sabre,
we're all going to do it individually.
So that when I get into
that fun quiz time,
you can validate whether the things
I'm saying are actually true or not.
They are, but
you should definitely use science and
be able to validate those things,
rather than taking my word for it.
Alright, so here's our first exercise.
This'll be a really quick one.
There's it's called basic-counter, and
right now if you're on the master branch,
it doesn't really do much.
It doesn't have any say, it's just
a component that renders zero and
a bunch of buttons that
are completely no ops.
Right, they are just anonymous
functions that eventually just
don't return anything or do anything.
So we're going to start out
by getting that working.
I'll show you the code in one second.
There's a bunch of other files in
there because I have a lesson plan and
there's a plan to what we're doing.
But, the one you need to
concern yourself with right now
is simply the one that is
the counter-component.
So let's actually take a look at it.
>> Steve Kinney: Pull it over,
[SOUND] Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: So
let's actually pull up basic counter.
>> Steve Kinney: Here it is.
It's really great.
It has a count that is always set to zero.
That's phenomenal.
It doesn't do the thing.
If you hit any of the buttons they
are just functions that don't do anything.
Our job is to get this wired up so
that it starts with a count.
Starting with zero perhaps but if you
want to start at five, this is your day,
you do what you want.
And then, when they hit the button,
we'll increment by one, unless you
wanna increment by a different number.
This again,
I'm not gonna tell you what to do.
I gave you an exercise,
you're allowed to do whatever you want.
We wanna get this thing working cuz what
we're gonna do is we're gonna take this
very kinda simple, isolated example.
And then we're gonna look in, when we
get to part three, a bunch of different
patterns for separating out our view
from the management of the state.
So we'll start out by doing
the simplest encapsulated version,
and we'll get that working.
And then we will begin
to like play with it,
and tease it out a little bit
with another example as well.